Design Patterns

 design pattern is a general repeatable solution to a commonly occurring problem in software design.  It is a description or template for how to solve a problem that can be used in many different situations.

 Advantages
 1. Maintaince
 2. Readeablity

 Creational Desing Patterns:
 These design patterns are all about class instantiation or object creation.
 These patterns can be further categorized into Class-creational patterns and object-creational patterns.

1. *Abstract Factory : Creates an instance of several families of classes
2. *Builder: Separates object construction from its representation
3. *Factory Method: Creates an instance of several derived classes
4. Object Pool :Avoid expensive acquisition and release of resources by recycling objects that are no longer in use
5. Prototype: A fully initialized instance to be copied or cloned
6. *Singleton: A class of which only a single instance can exist


Structural Design Pattern :
These design patterns are about organizing different classes and objects to form larger structures and provide new functionality.

1. Adapter : Match interfaces of different classes
2. *Bridge : Separates an object’s interface from its implementation
3. Composite : A tree structure of simple and composite objects
4. *Decorator :Add responsibilities to objects dynamically
5. *Facade : A single class that represents an entire subsystem
6. *Flyweight : A fine-grained instance used for efficient sharing
7. Private Class Data :Restricts accessor/mutator access
8. Proxy : An object representing another object

Behavioral design Pattern
These design patterns are all about Class's objects communication. Behavioral patterns are those patterns that are most specifically concerned with communication between objects.

1. *Chain of responsibility : A way of passing a request between a chain of objects
2. Command : Encapsulate a command request as an object
3. Interpreter : A way to include language elements in a program
4. Iterator : Sequentially access the elements of a collection
5. Mediator : Defines simplified communication between classes
6. Memento : Capture and restore an object's internal state
7. Null Object : Designed to act as a default value of an object
8. *Observer : A way of notifying change to a number of classes
9. *State : Alter an object's behavior when its state changes
10. *Strategy : Encapsulates an algorithm inside a class
11. *Template method : Defer the exact steps of an algorithm to a subclass
12. Visitor : Defines a new operation to a class without change
